[TASK] Write information on application context (#520)
TYPO3-Documentation/TYPO3CMS-Tutorial-GettingStarted: Documentation/Installation/ApplicationContext.rst

:navigation-title: Application context
.. include:: /Includes.rst.txt

.. index:: Environment; Configuration; .env ; dotenv

..  _environment-phpconfig:
..  _environment-configuration:
..  _application-context:

====================================================
TYPO3 Application context: Development or Production
====================================================

..  figure:: _ApplicationContext/ApplicationContextInformation.png
    :alt: Screenshot showing the current application context in the "System Information" box

    The current application context is displayed on the top-right in the "System Information" box

A TYPO3 instance is often used in different contexts that can adapt to your

> custom needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
needs.
```

You can use the application context to differentiate between different
environments / servers.

> There are 3 major application context group:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are 3 major application context groups:
```

`Development`

>     To be used during development, debugging is enabled by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To be used during development. Debugging is enabled by default.
```

`Production`
    Debugging and deprecation logs are deactivated by default.
`Testing`

>     To be used in automatic testing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To be used in automated testing.
```

> You can define arbitrary strings as subcontext for example `Development/Local`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can define arbitrary strings as a subcontext for example `Development/Local`
```

or `Production/Stage`.

..  todo: Link to application context in TYPO3 explained, once that chapter is written

..  contents::

..  _set-ApplicationContext:

Setting the application context
===============================

> If the application context is not set it is `Production` by default. So on your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the application context is not set it is `Production` by default so that you
```

> production server you have to do nothing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
don't have to do anything on the production server.
```

..  todo: Link to application context in TYPO3 explained, once that chapter is written

In DDEV you should set the application context to `Development/Local` to enable

> debugging and different site configurations for DDEV and you life server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
debugging and different site configurations for DDEV and your live server.
```

Create a file called :file:`docker-compose.context.yaml` in your :path:`.ddev`
path with the following content:

..  literalinclude:: _ApplicationContext/_docker-compose.context.yaml
    :caption: [project root]/.ddev/docker-compose.context.yaml

Restart DDEV using

..  code-block:: bash

    ddev restart

.. _development-settings:

Local development
=================

When you :ref:`installed TYPO3 with DDEV <install>`, DDEV automatically created
a file called :path:`config/system/additional.php` for you. This file includes
server settings needed only during development, including:

> *   The connection to the local database in DDEV

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   A connection to the local database in DDEV
```

> *   Configuration for the Mailpit to enable debugging of mails

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   Configuration of Mailpit to enable debugging of emails
```

*   Image magic configuration so that images can be scaled and edited
*   Enabling enhanced error reporting

You should not :ref:`deploy <deployment>` this file to your production server

> but create one that is only used on the production server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but create one just for the production server.
```

See section :ref:`production-settings`

.. _production-settings:

Production environment
======================

It is not recommended to put credentials into a file that is kept under version

> control. Many other settings however should be kept in version control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
control. However, many other settings should be kept under version control.
```

> We recommend to put all configuration containing credentials into a special

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend putting all configuration containing credentials into a special
```

file that is not kept under version control and include it in your
:path:`config/system/additional.php`.

Create a file called :file:`config/system/credentials.php`:

..  literalinclude:: _ApplicationContext/_credentials.php
    :caption: config/system/credentials.php

..  important::
    Add :file:`config/system/credentials.php` to your `.gitignore` so that it
    is never put under version control.

> You can now include this file into your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now include this file in your
```

:path:`config/system/additional.php`:

..  literalinclude:: _ApplicationContext/_additional.php
    :caption: config/system/additional.php

> The following steps are needed for a save production context:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following steps are needed for a secure production context:
```

*   :ref:`Generate a unique encryption key <t3coreapi:security-encryption-key-generate>`
    and put it in `$customChanges['SYS']['encryptionKey']` in your
    :file:`config/system/credentials.php`.
*   Choose a new install tool password and put its hash into
    `$customChanges['BE']['installToolPassword']`.

> *   Replace the database credentials in section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   Replace the database credentials in the
```

>     `$customChanges['DB']['Connections']['Default']` with the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    `$customChanges['DB']['Connections']['Default']` section with
```

    database credentials for your server.

Further settings important for security can be made directly in the
:path:`config/system/additional.php`:

..  literalinclude:: _ApplicationContext/_additional-2.php
    :caption: config/system/additional.php

Please refer to the security guide in getting started to check which settings
are currently recommended for a secure production environment:

:ref:`Global TYPO3 configuration options <t3coreapi:security-global-typo3-options>`

> Suggested configurations might change be future security bulletins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suggested configurations might change in future security bulletins.
```
